
1)Why are my skills and abilities? 

2)Why am I unique? 

3)What have I contributed? 

4)What are my personality strengths? 

5)Where do you see me in the future?

 
To Whom it May Concern: 

Sweta is one of the most exemplary and hard-working interns I have ever had the pleasure of knowing. From July to August 2015, Sweta came to work at the Geospatial Research Lab (GRL) for the Army Corp of Enginners as a computer science trainee. She was put onto the STRIDER project, a computer science focused project that deals with retrieving information from social media and text documents to create stories that can be used to describe links between entities. 

Sweta showed impressive maturity and professionalism beyond her years in her ability to work with other researchers, communicate ideas, solve problems, and present solutions. She also showed great motivation, especially demonstrated by her contributions to the team, such as a java application that prints a .csv file containing information on users who retweeted a certain status and her approach to sovling the problem of comparing stories. 

Sweta is a rare type of student who puts an inordinate amount of passion into her work and has a remarkable drive to accomplish great things. She is extremely dedicated and has an exceptional natural ability to comprehend tasks quickly while challenging herself. 

Miss Karlekar has shown me on multiple occassions that she has an extraordinary ability to quickly grasp concepts and implement ideas. For example, I asked her to create an application be able to search Twitter statuses without specifying any languages or frameworks and gave her very little guidance or directive. Instead of coding with Java or Python, both of which she is fluent in, she chose to code in AngularJS, a programming language built on top of Javascript, because it would expand her programming abilities. She then proceeded to learn through tutorials and by talking to peers and created a exceptional working product by the end of the week.

I have seen great promise in her ability to take the lead and go the extra mile for every assignemnt. I gave multiple tasks to Sweta while she worked at the GRL. Not only did Sweta complete her tasks in a timely and efficient manner, she was also able to find time to participate in side projects. For example, during her first week here, she noticed our project uses a k-means clustering algorithm, an algorithm she was unfamiliar with. Because of her surprising and notable curiosity, Sweta took the intiative to implement k-means in her own time in an effort to understand it better. 

Miss Karlekar was not only able to participate, but thrive in an adult working environment. She maintained a professional working attitude while being friendly and was a great addition to the work environment. Her computer science skills and capacity to work in a team has brought her to the attention of various other colleagues and she was invited to assist on a conference publication to be presented in December and later published on a peer-reviewed academic journal. 

Sweta's motivation and eager attitude to learn has landed her an invitation back next year. She is not afraid to ask questions and shows remarkable leadership qualities. Given her amazing internal motivation, I trust that she will go far in life. I see great potential in her and I wholeheartedly recommend her as an asset to your establishment. 


Sincerely, 

Ray Dos Santos
Member of STRIDER Team
Geospatial Resarch Lab
Army Corp of Engineers
